So, let's look at RDS with CloudWatch.
As we know, CloudWatch is going
to be deeply innovative with RDS.
We're going to get from the hypervisor
some basic metrics, such as number
of DatabaseConnections, SwapUsage,
ReadIOPS/WriteIOPS, ReadLatency/WriteLatency,
ReadThroughPut/WriteThroughPut, DiskQueueDepth,
and FreeStorageSpace.
From these, we can do a lot of troubleshooting.
For example, if the latency is high,
something is wrong, if the ReadIOPS are peaking,
maybe we've reached our IOPS for our EBS volume.
If the DiskQueueDepth is too high,
that means that a lot of operations are waiting
to be executed.
We can also look at the CPU.
I'm sure that that is not too high.
All that stuff, right?
This is provided by CloudWatch basic metrics
and you can enable enhanced monitoring
and we'll do this right away.
Enhanced monitoring is, usually, metrics
that are gathered from an agent
that runs on the DB instance.
So, it is more special, more specific,
and what you get with it is you get a lot
of information around the processes
and the threads that use the CPU,
and you get access to over 50 new CPU,
memory, file system, and disk I/O metrics.
Let's go have a look at
how we can enable enhanced monitoring right now.
Let's go to mydb, modify,
and in there we're going to be able
to enable enhanced monitoring.
If you remember, when we first created our database
we did not enable it.
I'll just scroll down,
and as you can see, all the way at the bottom
we can enable enhanced monitoring.
In there, you're able to get more information
and you need to define monitoring role.
We'll just create default and RDS will create a role for us.
Then, you can see how granular
you want your monitoring to be.
I'll leave it at 60 seconds, but as you can see,
you can get per second granularity,
which is quite awesome.
Now, you click on continue and apply immediately
to apply the changes right away.
And here we go, it's working
so it's just going to give you a little bit
of weird error message but you just have
to wait until everything is created.
Now, we're done.
So if you go to monitoring, in there,
you're going to get CloudWatch
so we can look at what CloudWatch gives you.
It gives you CPU utilization, the number of connections
that we have, the storage space, the write iops,
the read IOPS, the memory that's free.
Using enhanced monitoring, we're going to get a lot more.
To view enhanced monitoring, pretty tricky, monitoring,
there's a drop-down.
In here, you can choose CloudWatch,
so this will just give you the CloudWatch information.
Also, you can choose enhanced monitoring
and this will give you all the enhanced monitoring.
We have to wait a little bit until the agent starts up.
You can also get the OS process list if you wanted to.
Let me just wait a little bit for enhanced monitoring
to kick in and I'll be right back.
Okay, so now if I go to enhanced monitoring
I start seeing some data.
As we can see, we have free memory, active memory, CPU user,
load average, used filesystem.
We have more graphs as well
as available number of tasks running, etc.
So, enhanced monitoring does give me more access
to more metrics,
and if we go to OS process list,
you get some information around
which processes using whatever memory and RAM.
This gives you a lot more information around
what is happening on your database
thanks to this enhanced monitoring.
So, that's it.
Just wanted to show you this, but overall,
the idea is that the exam will ask you questions
around how maybe a metric can impact your database
and just use your common sense
and troubleshoot using your brain, basically.
So, that's it. I will see you in the next lecture.